---
layout: post
title: "This, apply, call, bind"
comments: true
date: "2019-04-15"
---
No matter what Marcus says, THIS is hard as hell to understand.

Let's try to figure it out.

## Method is called by owning object

In a method, *this* refers to the object the method belongs to *at time of execution*. 

If we have an object called *eric*, which has a method *move()*, it'd look like this:

```javascript
var person = {
  position: 0,
  move: function() {
    this.position++;
  }
};
```

When we call the function move(), we'd do it like this:

```javascript
person.move(); // position === 1
```

*move()* is called by *person*, and inside the *move* function, *this* references the *person* object. This is obvious enough just by looking to the left of the dot.


**But there are twists!** 

## Method is called by global object

Remember, inside a function, *this* belongs to *the object that executes the function call*. 

Why is this confusing? Because sometimes a function isn't immediately executed. Instead it's passed to another function (e.g. setTimeout(*person.sayHi*, 1000)) to be executed at a later time. At the time the function setTimeout(person.sayHi, 1000) is executed, *this* is a reference to the object that executed sayHi(), even if sayHi was passed was a method of a separate object (person).

Let's look. The object below contains the function *sayHi*. The function's output includes a reference to the calling object's name property.

```javascript
var person = {
  name: 'eric',
  sayHi: function() {
    console.log('Hi, my name is ' + this.name);
  }
};

setTimeout(person.sayHi, 1000);
```

So in *setTimeout(person.sayHi, 1000)*, what is the calling object? 

*setTimeout* is a **global** function, which means its *this* is a reference to the *window* object. This means the window object is also the object which executes sayHi(), making the *this* in sayHi a reference to the **window object!**

**setTimeout** has the **function definition** as a parameter, and executes it at a *later* time. Why is the function definition important? Because all *setTimeout* has is the **function description**, and nothing else. A *function description* is **not** an execution of the function itself, and has no other special information besides the details of how to execute the function. 

In a simpler example, if you pass (10 * 5) as a parameter to a function, the function receives 50, *not the specifics of the parameter operation!* 

In fact, *setTimeout* has no idea who 'person' is, or that 'person' owns the function object. It simply has the function definition to execute at a later time.

Therefore, the object *this* references isn't 'person'. *This* references the object it's called by. 

Since setTimeout executes sayHi, and setTimeout is called by the global object, which is **window**, the window object is what *this* references. 

When we call

```javascript
setTimeout(person.sayHi, 1000);
```

*this* is a reference to the window object, which does **not** have a *name* property, so *name* is undefined. The output is then:
```
Hi, my name is 
```

## bind()

When we encounter situations where it's possible to lose a *this* binding, it's possible to permanently bind *this* using *bind()*. 

*bind()* is a method of all function objects, and receives a *this* reference as a parameter to bind the function to.

In the previous example, *this* referenced the window object.

```javascript
setTimeout(person.sayHi, 1000); // Hi, my name is 
```

If we want to keep reference to the person object, we can change the call to:

```javascript
setTimeout(person.sayHi.bind(person), 1000); // Hi, my name is eric
```

Note, bind is similar to apply() and call() in that it forces a *this* reference, but unlike apply() and call() (see next session), it does *not* immediately execute the function.


## apply() and call()

Along with bind(), every function object has an apply() method and a call() method. Similar to bind(), they force a *this* reference.

The difference is apply() and call() will execute the function immediately.

*apply()* and *call()* have essentially the same functionality, except if called on a function with parameters, *apply()* accepts an array of parameters and *call()* accepts a list of N parameters.

```javascript
person.listAppendages.apply(person, ['arms', 'legs']);
person.listAppendages.call(person, 'arms', 'legs');
```

**Important:** we should *not* use apply() nor call() in the setTimeout function in the previous example. Recall that apply() and call() will execute a function *immediately*. So if used in the context of setTimeout, they would cause the parameter function to execute regardless of wait time.
